"Character-Editor"

This program helps to design characters for the commodore 64.
It will generate a binary file aimed to load as a logical file.

On the left is a draw screen for the selected character.
Drawing is done with the left mousebutton to draw the selected color or right mousebutton to draw with the background color.
Selection of a character (256 in total) can be done by the preview panel.
At the far right is the data that will be generated for this character.

To the right of the draw screen are selections for the character to be in `HiRes`, `MultiColor` or `Extended` mode.
In multicolor mode the character will be drawn in horizontal `pixel-pairs` in stead of single pixels.
In extended mode each character can have its own background color (selected at the right), however the number of characters will be limited to 64.

Below this are selections for the colors (each char can have it's own color, multicolors are common to all characters).
Click the color to have a popup screen to select another color.

Below the colors are buttons for rotating, mirroring, copy-paste and shifting of the character.
Note that shifting a multicolor character in horizontal direction will shift 2 pixels at once.
Also rotating a multicolored character will be bit-wise, so this will merely give an outline to redraw your character.
This is unavoidable because a 2 bit horizontal `multicolor dot` will be transfered to 2 bits vertical (loosing the multicolor info). 
There is no elegant way to solve this tho.  

In the menu you can load and save (or export as png) your characters.
It will generate a configuration file (.chr) and a binary file (.64c) and the program expect the same when loading a file.

The .chr file will contain the color information for the characters.
This color information is also saved in a binary file (.col file for colors and .bac file for background colors).

You can also load a single binary file (as an import for several files found on the web).
It has an offset function because some files will contain 1 or 2 extra bytes at the beginning of the file.

Remember that switching modes could lead to data loss because in some modes character color info is being used in other ways (as a mode).
Best is to set a mode and stick to it before creating your font.

Have fun.
Dirk Prins.

dirk.prins@yahoo.com
info@fornext.nl
  